Welcome to a very special episode of
Design Review. Today I am joined by
Evard
who is the designer here at YC and we're
going to be talking about the brand new
YC website that we just launched.
[music]
>> Ev, thank you for joining.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> Yeah, this was an incredibly fun project
to work on together. It's been, I know,
a labor of love for both of us
>> and super excited to have it out there.
So, I thought it'd be good in this
episode for us to kind of go through
>> where did we start? What did the YC
website look like before?
>> We can do a little mini design review of
that and some of the feedback and, you
know, changes and updates that we wanted
to make happen.
>> And then we can take the audience
through uh where we landed with the new
homepage and our thinking behind it. And
then at the end maybe we can talk
through the process because I think the
process for how we built this was
actually very unique and different from
certainly how I have made a lot of uh
websites and designed things in the
past.
>> That sounds perfect.
>> Awesome. Well, I guess to kick it off,
let's start with uh the old YC homepage.
This was originally designed uh probably
four or five years ago uh during co and
it's served us well since then. But I
think going through, you know, we kind
of did a design review on it and we felt
like it needed to be updated for modern
times and and uh have a different
message that we were trying to
communicate.
>> Tell me some of your thoughts as you're
starting to look at at this site here.
>> Um well, my first thought here is um it
is a very utilitarian website. Um, it
feels a little bit like a B2B SAS
template with some call to actions, some
picture in the hero section, um, and
then some text on the left and then some
stats and then some logos. But Y is such
a truly special brand where we can do so
much more in being inspiring and telling
a story and this was not really um,
doing it. And so we thought maybe in the
redesign we can take more of a
storytelling approach. Another thing
that stuck with us is in the top company
section, yes, we show the logos, but we
don't really talk about the founders who
built these companies. And YC
not only was part of all of these
companies journeys, but it YC was
pivotal in the trajectory of all of
these companies. And it's something that
was um a little bit underplayed in the
original design. And so that's something
that's also like a um kind of a wedge
that we wanted to explore for the new
design is how can we put more emphasis
on the founders who built these
companies as opposed to just the logo.
>> It it's interesting also because the
headline here is top YC companies and
you know if if we were just scrolling
down this page and reading the headlines
like that doesn't really tell me
anything. Instead, you know, we should
be saying things like there's dozens of
billion-dollar companies that have
started NYC is like really I think the
message that we wanted to communicate
here. So, going down the headlines here,
we help founders make something people
want and the results speak for
themselves. And it's like, well, what
are the results? You know, we should
just say the thing here. We improve the
success rate of our startups. And it's
like, by how much?
>> Exactly.
>> We we don't really quantify a lot of
these things.
>> Mhm. Or we don't try to illustrate the
outcome necessarily um here. It's just
it's just text.
>> Yep. YC is run by startup founders
who've built exactly what they wanted
when starting and growing a startup. Um
that's an important message that I you
know we really wanted to keep is that us
YC partners like we were all YC founders
ourselves which is another thing that
really differentiates uh YC and is
unique to YC. And then we get to this
section here we put founders interest
first which I think is actually a really
important message
>> but everything underneath it is all
these things that we don't do. We don't
take a board seat. We don't take months
to decide. we don't require decks rather
than kind of being the positive version
of that.
>> Yes.
>> So, this gives, you know, some good
context, I think, for where things
started. And, uh, why don't you take us
through the new version that we put
together?
>> So, we recently launched this brand new
redesign where we took all of our
learnings from the original website and
then we thought deeply about what kind
of messaging we really wanted to convey
in the new one. And in that case, we
really wanted to not sell you a program
or sell you a product, but instead make
you dream.
>> We were really inspired by the idea of
um going back to the YC roots. And so we
studied very deeply the Paul Graham
essays. One word that really stands out
when you read PGSAs is formidable.
that's that's the word that he use u he
uses and also Jessica used to describe
the extraordinary founders that they
funded a very in the very early days of
YC and so we really wanted to include
that word it's a very meaningful word um
that we still use to this day at YC
internally and when it comes to the
footnote what we wanted to do here is a
little nod to how PG has footnotes in
his in his essays
>> and so here we wanted to provide a
little definition of what is the word
formidable in the words of of PG. The
hero section serves as a header for the
second section. So if you scroll down,
we try to illustrate the before and
after of some of the most successful
founders that we've funded. And we
really wanted to put the emphasis on the
founders and the faces as most of the
companies. And we also wanted to
highlight the humble beginnings of all
of these founders. So that as a builder
you see that and you think oh this could
be me.
>> Mhm.
>> I could do this.
>> Yeah. All these people on the left look
like you know people going through the
batch right now and 10 years from now
they will be those people on the right.
>> Exactly.
>> Uh so it's easy to see yourself I think
and realize like these founders that are
really incredible have built um
generational companies actually started
in the same place that I'm at right now.
Mhm. And then here we wanted to
highlight the combined valuation of all
the companies that YC has ever funded.
And then some additional logos.
And then here we have this small
paragraph that describes what YC is. But
what's amazing is that we decided to
keep the exact same copy from the
original version of the YC website that
was made by PG more than 10 years ago.
>> Yeah.
>> The only thing that we tweaked is some
some some details to make it up to date.
Like for example, now we fund companies
four times a year
>> and it's in San Francisco, no longer in
Mountain View. But other than that, the
copy is the exact same as what it was on
the very original YC website 15 years
ago.
>> Yeah. So, thanks to the Wayback Machine,
we can actually see the site from I
guess this is 13 years ago at this
point. And yeah, it looks like the exact
same copy. And it looks like the core
thing that's happening here is just
pictures of what happens in the batch.
And then that's the same thing
communicating with with these photos
here. It's this is the environment. This
is what happens when you go through the
batch.
>> Yes. Something else that we wanted to do
here was try to describe the experience
of going through IC, but not in our
words, in founders words. And so what we
did as part of this project is we
interviewed some of the some of the
founders who went through YC in the last
>> one or two years. and we asked them what
it felt like to go through YC and what
was their biggest key takeaway, what
what they think when they look back on
their experience. We gathered these
small sound bites together and put them
side by side so that it feels like
continuous text that you can read um but
they are actually all quotes coming from
uh various founders from different
batches. And if you want to put a face
next to the next to the quote, you can
just hover over and you can see a little
bit of information their name their
their company.
>> Yeah. And this was really important to
us, right? Like we didn't want to say a
bunch of things about how great YC is
and you know it'll change your life and
stuff like that. Um instead we wanted to
just have the founders stories
communicate that. Um, and so I think it
makes it a lot more credible and
believable when it comes from them
rather than us saying it about
ourselves.
>> Yes. And it's also aligned with the
overall theme of putting founders front
and center as opposed to YC the brand
front and center.
>> This is a very fun section. So
>> one of the greatest perks of growing
through YC is that you get the chance of
being in the room with some of the most
recognizable faces in Silicon Valley and
get personalized advice from them. And
so we put these pictures together and we
thought, well, one thing that we can do
to make them feel even more alive could
be to use a little bit of AI to animate
them. And we had a lot of fun turning
all of these um pictures that we started
taking during our events and animated
them lightly so that they feel a little
bit more alive and engaging. talk a
little bit about the process of
generating these and making them feel
authentic and realistic and you know
some of the tools that you used.
>> We've tried many many many different
tools and very often the faces would
change frame by frame and the founders
the the main founders in the frame would
become unrecognizable. One of the recent
YC startups that went through YC
actually in in the fall, they
recommended us this tool um called one
and we've been using it to generate the
the the videos that we used here for
this section. This is probably our
favorite section by far.
>> Um and so continuing on the theme of
transformation, the most important
message that we wanted to share here was
all the partners at YC were in your
shoes
>> not long ago.
>> Yeah.
>> Um they were YC founders. They went
through the batch. They understand what
you're going through. If you hover over
each card, we show a picture of each
partner when they were in the batch.
>> Every time we look at this section, it
makes us smile. Yeah.
>> And and
>> and everybody, I think, um, founders
when they see this, um, it's just fun to
see all of us when, you know, we were
going through our batches many, many
years ago. M
>> and it's it's a visual way to
communicate what we really wanted to hit
home with this section, right? It like
um it just makes it so obvious. It's
like, oh, there's Tyler. Tyler went
through YC and look how young he looks
and man, he must have learned a lot of
lessons along the way, right?
>> That's also something that we wanted to
show on on industry design is that YC is
also fun and playful. Going through YC
is fun and we don't take ourselves too
seriously. And so using all these
pictures of like the early days of part
of uh of partners who were going through
YC or some of the top founders, it makes
it playful. And then we have this
section here where we wanted to
highlight some of the um recent media
that we've been um putting out. So some
some of of our videos and podcast
episodes. We wanted to highlight some
startup news and then of course some PGs
essays here directly. And then final
call to action of it's never too early
to apply to YC. You should you should
not overthink it.
>> Yeah, this is one of the common things
that we hear from founders a lot which
is um they think like oh I'm too early
or I need to make more progress or I
need lots of revenue before I'll be
accepted to YC so I shouldn't even
apply. And we constantly are telling
founders and you know other people like
no no it's never too early to apply. And
so we wanted to just take that phrase
and just put it right there on the site.
So, anybody who's like, well, you know,
I don't have revenue or I don't have a
product or I don't have a fully baked
idea to just tell them like just hit the
button. It doesn't matter. We fund
people that haven't quit their jobs yet
or people that are still in school or
are just thinking about an idea, don't
even have an idea yet.
>> Certainly don't have customers. Um, so
there are no preset requirements like
that. Um, and the best thing that gives
you a shot is just hitting the apply
button.
>> Yep.
>> And that's it. We have the footer.
>> Amazing. YC's next batch is now taking
applications. Got a startup in you?
Apply at y combinator.com/apply.
It's never too early and filling out the
app will level up your idea. Okay, back
to the video.
>> Tell us more about um the overall
aesthetic and and where we've ended up
here.
>> Yes, I think what was very important to
us was to focus on the storytelling and
then get rid of all the distractions
that can take away from from this. And
so the hero section is definitely a very
notable example of we could have added
pictures, animations, things like that,
but then we realized after iterating on
it and and trying very various versions
of it that we'd rather go for something
that is extremely
um minimal and simple and that really
gets the message across. What was
important to us also was to make it feel
very
airy and breathable and almost like the
content is floating on the page. We
wanted to um stay away from borders and
hard dividers and things like that. And
as part of this minimalistic design,
what was really important to us was to
remove all the distractions and really
put the emphasis on the faces and the
founders and remove all unnecessary
design elements that we didn't need.
>> Yeah. And really telling the story all
throughout. Um, you know, one thing that
you commonly see on websites is some
type of call to action here. You know,
we considered like should we have an
apply button here? And that didn't feel
right. I think ultimately because this
is not some B2B SAS where we're, you
know, trying to increase the conversion
rate 0.1% or something. We want people
to be inspired and see themselves in
this and think that they could be uh one
of these stories that's here and that
having an apply button is not the thing
that's going to get some extra person to
apply. If anything, it's just going to
take the noise away from communicating
the story that we really want to tell. I
think another thing that's maybe
interesting to the audience is the
process by which we actually built this
and maybe you could tell people a little
bit about that like we didn't actually
spend a lot of time in Figma and
designing frames and things like that.
Talk about the process for how we
eventually got to this point.
>> So we first started exploring different
directions and aesthetics um in Figma.
We started putting together some mood
boards of um kind of vibes that we
wanted to go for for for this project.
And when we were set on on a certain
direction, we started mocking up a few
frames in Figma and then very quickly
realized that we felt constrained a
little bit. We wanted to think outside
of the box and we wanted to play with
animations and and make it unique. And
very quickly we realized that it would
be probably more efficient to create a
brand new repo, brand new project and
then just chat with Opus 4.5 in cursor
and see what it can cook up for us. It
allowed us to save a lot of time that
way and be a lot more efficient and also
a lot more creative probably. Yeah, we
ended up on a lot of the, you know, we
wanted to keep the background color that
was the same background color that, you
know, we use on the old YC homepage and
for the continuity and because it's such
an important part of the brand. And so,
we kind of got this structure down. But
what was really fun was being able to go
section by section and say, what's like
the most compelling interactive version
of this? Yes.
>> Where we can use animation not for
animation's sake, but more to actually
communicate what we're trying to
communicate with this section. Yes. And
so, you know, it was fun to just like we
put together the static thing and then
it's like, okay, well, how can we make
it? How can we show a transformation
from during YC to now? And, you know, we
explored all these different ideas and
ways to do it.
>> Yes.
>> And to be able to prototype it on
something live and see the before and
after and oh, what if we had the
companies in the middle and you scrolled
it like this and it separated the
before, you know, like it took us a
while to get there. We played with a lot
of different variations. Um, and I think
for all of these sections, we would not
have ended up where we ended up had we
not been actually doing it live,
basically.
>> Yep. Totally agree. And it was also
great because we used um Opus 4.5 as
like a co-worker as part of our little
design team. We used it to also explore
different directions. We literally some
of our prompts were
>> this is the information we want to show
in this section.
>> Display it creatively
>> and then we see what it cooks up with.
And sometimes it's really bad. Sometimes
it has a kernel of something good that
we wanted to keep iterating on and then
eventually it it turned into this
carousel that I don't think we would
never
>> have been able to really come up with in
Figma or um other static tools.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's it's really cool
because um I feel like we spent so much
of the time just thinking about the
interactions and how we communicate this
and um there's never been a project that
I've worked on before where I've spent
that much time on the interactions. Um,
and it's because the new tools are
possible to be able to do that and it
allows us to focus on those really
higher level things rather than spending
all this time coding out some of the
most basic things um that we now can get
really quickly and really easily.
>> Yes, it gave us a lot of bandwidth to
focus on the storytelling which was
probably the most important part y of
this whole project.
>> Yep. And so trend-wise, you know, what I
would expect to see u from web and
product design over the next year, two
years, five years is an evolution more
in that direction. Like how can you use
um not just static images, static text
to communicate the ideas that you want
to communicate, but how can you use
interactivity and animation and things
like that, not for that sake, but
because it does a better job of
communicating the message that you want.
Yes,
>> it's easier than ever to be able to do
that now.
>> Amazing. EV, this was an incredibly fun
project to work on. I am so proud of
where we ended up here and I think this
is a site that is going to continue to
serve YC and founders
on for many many years. Um, so
incredible work. I just want to make
sure that everybody, you know, sees the
incredible work that you've done and how
many late nights and, you know, grinding
you were doing to to make this thing
what it is today. And, um, I think I
speak for all of us at YC that, you
know, we're just super proud of of where
this ended up. Thank you.
>> Amazing work.
>> It was a dream come true working with
you on this project. So, thank you so
much.
>> That does it for this design review. I
hope this was a fun one. A little bit of
a a different take on things looking
internally here at YC. Thanks for
watching and we'll see you on the next
design review.